Add more detail about how connections are saved (#3186)
astronomer/docs: astro/create-and-link-connections.md

![Example of the Connections tab in the Astro Environment Manager page](/img/docs/connections-env-mgmt.png)

## How connections are stored

> When you set a non-secret connection in the Environment Manager, Astronomer stores the connection information in a database that is hosted and managed by Astronomer.

Reviewer: Confirm that connections can't be non-secret

> When you set a secret connection in the Environment Manager, the following happens:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create an Airflow connection in the Environment Manager, the following happens:
```

- Astro generates a manifest that defines a Kubernetes secret, named <?>, that contains your connection information as (environment variables?).
- Astro applies this manifest to your Deployment's namespace.
- After the manifest is applied, the key and value of your environment variable are stored in a managed secrets backend(?) in Astro.

This process occurs every time you update the connection.

### Fetching environment secrets

> The [Organization Owner](astro/user-permissions.md#organization-roles) can enable or disable whether Connections saved as **Secret** can be exported. This controls whether or not users can export connections to work on them locally, for security.

Reviewer: Since this is the core product doc, I would start the sentence here with the use case and value to the customer as opposed to the security details.

I.e. "You can fetch secrets and use them to test your DAGs and it's magical"

> By default, connections saved as secret can't be exported. However, if you want to work with Connections saved as secret. The organization owner can enable **Environment Secrets Fetching** in the **Organization Settings** on the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: Link to the export/import connections doc, consider framing some of this as a tip

![Example of the Connections tab in the Astro Environment Manager page](/img/docs/connections-env-mgmt.png)

## How connections are stored

When you create an Airflow connection in the Environment Manager, the following happens:

> - Astro generates a manifest that defines a Kubernetes secret, named <?>, that contains your connection information as (environment variables?).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Astro formats your connection information as an [environment variable](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html#storing-connections-in-environment-variables).
```
Defos need a double check on whether it's really an environment variable or not but this is the only way I could see us storing the connection as a "value"

> - Astro applies this manifest to your Deployment's namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The environment variable is stored in an Astronomer-managed secrets backend.
```

> - After the manifest is applied, the key and value of your environment variable are stored in a managed secrets backend(?) in Astro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you run a DAG with the specified connection, your Deployment uses credentials that are preconfigured in Astro Runtime to access the secrets backend and pull down your connection information.
```
Definitely need a check on this, the process for authenticating to the secrets backend could be totally different.

This process occurs every time you update the connection.

### Fetching environment secrets

> You can export Airflow Connections from the Cloud UI to test your DAGs locally, which means you can use your connection details without needing to manage credentials both locally and on the cloud. However, because Connection details are saved in a secrets manager, the [Organization Owner](astro/user-permissions.md#organization-roles) can enable or disable whether connections can be exported using the **Environment Secrets Fetching** setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can export Airflow connections from the Cloud UI to test your DAGs locally, which means you can use your connection details without needing to manage credentials between local and deployed environments. Local environments fetch connection information the same way as for Deployments, so they require an active internet connection and for you to be logged in with the Astro CLI. You can only fetch environment secrets from Deployments that belong to Workspaces where you are at least a Workspace Member.
```

Reviewer 2: The last bit seemed redundant to the tip section, so I made a suggestion to elaborate on the "How" of secrets fetching

:::tip

> By default, connections can't be exported locally. However, if you want to work with Connections locally, the organization owner can enable **Environment Secrets Fetching** in the **Organization Settings** on the Cloud UI. See [Import and export Airflow connections from the Cloud UI](import-export-connections-variables.md#from-the-cloud-ui).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, connections can't be exported locally. However, if you want to work with connections locally, the Organization Owner can enable **Environment Secrets Fetching** in the Cloud UI. See [Import and export Airflow connections from the Cloud UI](import-export-connections-variables.md#from-the-cloud-ui).
```

Reviewer 2: is this off by default? I thought it was on

![Example of the Connections tab in the Astro Environment Manager page](/img/docs/connections-env-mgmt.png)

## How connections are stored

When you create an Airflow connection in the Environment Manager, the following happens:

- Astro stores Airflow connections in an Astronomer-hosted secrets backend, and then applies connections to Deployments as a Kubernetes secret.

> - Instead of connection details being visible, like Environment Variables, these connections are mounted as files on the Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Instead of connection details being visible, like environment variables, these connections are mounted as files on the Deployment.
```

Reviewer 2: We can get this information later, but it would be good to add _where_ the files exist on the Deployment. Is it in the scheduler? Workers? Somewhere else?

> - When you export connections to work locally, the Astro CLI uses Airflow’s provided [local filesystem secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html) so that Airflow reads the secrets to look up connections.

Author: @jeremybeard - question about how the [local filesystem secrets backend works](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html#storing-and-retrieving-connections), the Airflow docs aren't clear if it's "local" in the sense of in the Docker containers/Airflow infrastructure, or if it's specific to local development.

Reviewer 3: "local" has a couple of different usages in this feature:
- For deployments the local filesystem secrets backend is used to read connections from the mounted Kubernetes secret
- For local development (i.e. `astro dev start`) the Astro CLI reads the connections from the Astro API and injects them into the local Airflow instance's metadata database (in the same way that connections from the local `airflow_settings.yaml` file are injected), so there the local filesystem secrets backend is not used

> - When you export connections to work locally, the Astro CLI configures Airflow’s provided [local filesystem secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html) so that Airflow reads the secrets to look up connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you export connections to work locally, the Astro CLI utilizes Airflow’s provided [local filesystem secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html) so that Airflow reads the secrets to look up connections.
```

> This process occurs every time you create or update a connection.

Reviewer 2: V minor nit, but the last bullet point re: local dev isn't part of this mentioned process. Might want to move that detail to after this sentence

![Example of the Connections tab in the Astro Environment Manager page](/img/docs/connections-env-mgmt.png)

## How connections are stored

When you create an Airflow connection in the Environment Manager, the following happens:

- Astro stores Airflow connections in an Astronomer-hosted secrets backend, and then applies connections to Deployments as Kubernetes secrets.

> - Instead of connection details being visible, like environment variables, these connections are mounted as Kubernetes Secrets on the Deployment using Airflow’s provided [local filesystem secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html). This means that Airflow reads the secrets to look up connection details.

Reviewer 3: > Instead of connection details being visible, like environment variables

Sorry I might not have worded my comments well on Slack. Connections are made visible to the Airflow instance (by that I meant that Airflow can use them), but just not as environment variables. We probably don't really need to mention environment variables, so we could drop this start of the sentence.

> these connections are mounted as Kubernetes Secrets on the Deployment

The Kubernetes secrets are mounted as files on the deployment.

> using Airflow’s provided local filesystem secrets backend

The secrets backend doesn't do the mounting, it just reads connections from local files. The secrets backend is just configured by Astro with the paths of the files.

Author: Ok - I tried breaking this down again into three phases:

- creating the connection (what specifically gets created, where are the details stored)
- Assigning the connection to a deployment (mounting the kubernetes secret on the deployment)
- Using the connection in a DAG (how does Airflow access and use the connection details)

I think the important info to have here is 
1. Where is information being saved? Is it secret/accessible to anyone?
2. What parts of Astro/Airflow are "talking" to each other when a connection gets created, assigned, and used?

Is this closer?

This process occurs every time you create or update a connection.

> When you export connections to work locally, the Astro CLI reads the connections from the Astro API and injects them into the local Airflow instance's metadata database.

Reviewer 3: "export" might not be the right word, that implies to me that the connections are being exported out to a file or somewhere else that is persistent and accessible, but really it is just a copy of the connections inside the local Airflow instance's DB.

Reviewer 2: @jeremybeard I know it's pretty easy to query various Airflow data from the metadata DB, can users do the same with secret connection information? What are all of the ways that you could access connection data locally? We should put a big warning about this somewhere if there's any difference between what you can access via Astro and what you can access locally.

### Fetching environment secrets

> You can export Airflow connections from the Cloud UI to test your DAGs locally, which means you can use your connection details without needing to manage credentials between local and deployed environments. Local environments fetch connection information the same way as for Deployments, so they require an active internet connection and for you to be logged in with the Astro CLI. You can only fetch environment secrets from Deployments that belong to Workspaces where you are at least a Workspace Member.

Reviewer 3: > You can export Airflow connections from the Cloud UI

This reads to me that you can use the Cloud UI to export the connections. Instead they are automatically retrieved by the Astro CLI when you start the Airflow instance with the `--deploymentId` flag set (and after enabling it in the CLI with `astro config set disable_env_objects false`).

Author: Clarified and updated this copy - I'm going to make a follow up PR next week reworking the content this refers users to, so it's not perfect and still has the misleading "import/export" verbage. It's getting fixed!

![Example of the Connections tab in the Astro Environment Manager page](/img/docs/connections-env-mgmt.png)

## How connections are stored

When you create an Airflow connection in the Environment Manager, Astro stores Airflow connection details in an Astronomer-hosted secrets backend, and then applies connections to Deployments as Kubernetes secrets. Specifically the following steps occur:

- Astro stores the connection details as Kubernetes Secrets in an Astronomer-hosted secrets backend.
- When you assign connections to Deployments, Astro uses Airflow's provided [local filesystem secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/local-filesystem-secrets-backend.html) to mount the Kubernetes Secrets as files to the Deployment.
- When your DAGs use your connections, Airflow reads the connection details from the Kubernetes Secrets.

> This process occurs every time you create or update a connection.

Author: @jeremybeard - I tried breaking this down again into three phases:

creating the connection (what specifically gets created, where are the details stored)
Assigning the connection to a deployment (mounting the kubernetes secret on the deployment)
Using the connection in a DAG (how does Airflow access and use the connection details)
I think the important info to have here is

Where is information being saved? Is it secret/accessible to anyone?
What parts of Astro/Airflow are "talking" to each other when a connection gets created, assigned, and used?
Is this closer?

When you use connections for local development, the Astro CLI reads the connections from the Astro API and injects them into the local Airflow instance's metadata database.

### Fetching environment secrets

> The Astro CLI can automatically retrieve connections from the Cloud UI when you start your local airflow instnce, which means you can use your connection details without needing to manage credentials between local and deployed environments. Local environments fetch connection information the same way as for Deployments, so they require an active internet connection and for you to be logged in with the Astro CLI. You can only fetch environment secrets from Deployments that belong to Workspaces where you are at least a Workspace Member.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Astro CLI can automatically retrieve connections from the Cloud UI when you start your local airflow instance, which means you can use your connection details without needing to manage credentials between local and deployed environments. Local environments fetch connection information the same way as for Deployments, so they require an active internet connection and for you to be logged in with the Astro CLI. You can only fetch environment secrets from Deployments that belong to Workspaces where you are at least a Workspace Member.
```
